---
title: Week 1 Reading
style:
  background: red
---

## Reading
0. [How to Read a Paper](https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee384m/Handouts/HowtoReadPaper.pdf)
1. [Welcome to the Jungle](https://herbsutter.com/welcome-to-the-jungle/) ([Video of Facebook Engineering talk by the author](https://www.facebook.com/Engineering/videos/herb-sutter-welcome-to-the-jungle/10151029515183109/))

## Introduction
   You will be reading many articles and papers in this course (and indeed within your career). It pays to 
   have a systematic method for tackling this critical task to:
   1. reduce frustration when you are tackling a paper outside of your domain of expertise;
   2. make good use of your time;
   3. get the most out whatever paper that does cross your path.

## Instruction
   Read the paper [How to Read a Paper](https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee384m/Handouts/HowtoReadPaper.pdf) carefully. Pay attention to the three passes described. 
   The readings for this course have been carefully chosen to balance its content with the presumed background of the reader. But in some cases (such as in Week 1), the reading will be unavoidably demanding. In these cases, follow the suggestions from "How to Read a Paper" and use two passes to read the paper. For those who are technically inclined and/or keen on a specific topic/paper, by all means take a third pass as your interest/time allows.

   Now read the article [Welcome to the Jungle](https://herbsutter.com/welcome-to-the-jungle/). This is a long article (~10000 words) but if you apply the technique above (using at least two passes), you will be able to get the core ideas in a reasonable amount of time (~1h).

   Some notes :
   1. The article uses a mining analogy. If you are not familiar with geology and related heavy industry, you may need to read up on the side.

   2. Note the macro trends in core count and memory distribution have been manifested for a long time now across a wide spectrum of markets: main-stream game consoles, new devices (e.g., nVidia Tegra 3 chipset as used in Tesla Model S, Microsoft Surface, Google Nexus 7 tablet, etc), and processor architecture/families (Intel/x86, ARM, AMD, PowerPC, etc).

   3. Sutter gives names to the way that memory for an application may be divided across boundaries (processor die, computers, racks, datacenters). You may not be familiar with these names (NUMA, incoherent, weak etc) but the observation is key insofar as we are still running a program with data that happens to be distributed across many systems/locations/timezones.

   4. The emergence of cloud computing has a persistent and pervasive impact on both our industry and society: “Mainstream hardware is becoming permanently parallel, heterogeneous, and distributed. These changes are permanent, and so will permanently affect the way we have to write performance-intensive code on mainstream architectures.”

   5. The timelines Sutter provides from the 1970 to today is insightful: this is a relatively short span of time.

   6. The new priorities for software development are parallel programming, efficiency, and heterogeneous systems.

## Your Turn

   Take 30 minutes to complete [Quiz 1]() associated with this reading. 
