---
title: Reading 10
style:
  background: red
---


## Reading

1. [Scrum Guide 2020](https://www.scrumguides.org/docs/scrumguide/v2020/2020-Scrum-Guide-US.pdf)

2. Skim [Epics, Stories, Tasks, Subtasks… what’s the difference](https://lastcallmedia.com/blog/epics-stories-tasks-subtasks-whats-difference)

3. Skim [Epics, Stories, Tasks, Subtasks… in Various Tools of Choice](https://lastcallmedia.com/blog/epics-stories-tasks-subtasks-various-tools-choice)

## Key points
Some ideas to consider in the back of your mind:


### Scrum Guide 2020
1. Scrum focuses on 3 areas: team, events, & artifacts: the who, when and what of the work.

### Epics, Stories, Tasks, Subtasks… what’s the difference   
1. Software development is challenging not just for the technologies used (which are frequently also shifting) to achieve a goal but also the tools by which the parties/stakeholders organize themselves.

### Epics, Stories, Tasks, Subtasks… in Various Tools of Choice
1. You may recognize some of the tools or vendors here. Consider adopting some of them to organize yourself or your work (either here in this course or beyond).


## Your Turn

   Take 30 minutes to complete [Quiz 10]() associated with this reading. 





## Reading
1. [Observability — A 3-Year Retrospective](https://thenewstack.io/observability-a-3-year-retrospective/)

2. [Observability Won’t Replace Monitoring (Because It Shouldn’t)](https://thenewstack.io/observability-wont-replace-monitoring-because-it-shouldnt/)


## Key points

The first article defines the term “observability” and differentiates it from the collection of streams of data. More relevant to this course, author Charity Majors provides a short history of how monitoring became insufficient and motivates a new approach. She has been instrumental in driving this transformation, first at Facebook and now at her own company, Honeycomb.

The second article by Ben Sigelman is a more recent piece that elaborates on recent trends to replace/displace monitoring and otherwise equate observability with the use/adoption of the so-called "three pillars" (logs, metrics & traces). Ben Sigelman is the other individual most responsible for defining and advocating for observability.

The core idea of the "three pillars" is to record events (at various levels of aggregation). But the number of events in even a moderately successful system overwhelms human capacity to understand them. Ben's thesis is to focus on the desired outcomes (which is what a business/organization cares about) instead of fixating on the data (which while necessary is not an end to itself).

Some parts of these articles will be obscure because we haven’t covered the more basic concepts of metrics, logging, and tracing. The point to focus on is the persistent emphasis on cardinality across both articles and what an obstacle that represents to effective observability.


## Your Turn

For this week's reflection, answer the following questions keeping in mind what you have done already (or about to do) in exercises 5, 6 and 7.

1. What have you learned that connected with the exercises?
2. What questions remain in your mind?
3. Is there anything you did not understand?
4. What would you share from this set of reading with a colleague?


Grading comprise the following components:

1. Completeness of addressing the questions. (4 pt)

3. Punctuality of submission. (1 pt)

[fa icon="pencil"][Reflection](https://canvas.sfu.ca/courses/59479/assignments/576416)  
