---
title: Week 9 Reading
style:
  background: red
---

## Reading


1. [Continuous Integration](https://martinfowler.com/articles/continuousIntegration.html)

As this is a long article, pick 2 of the 11 practices to read through. (I encourage you to read through all 11 practices but your reflection only needs to cover 2 practices.)

## Key points


   1. The article may seem old (at least in the scale of tech) at 14 years as the examples are somewhat dated. Thus, you may not relate readily to C++, compilers (and especially linking!) but packaging remains and arguably is more important and prominent with the proliferation of package managers and automation. But the concept of build remains relevant today.

   2. Note the attribution to Extreme Programming. This article came out 7 years after Kent Beck's book _Extreme Programming Explained_ which launched the movement.

   3. Continuous Delivery is a set of practices which can be implemented in any era's technologies.

   4. Note the advice on minimizing branches (under *Maintain a Single Source Repository*). This article pre-dates the rise of decentralized version control system such as git which fundamentally changed the practice and use of branches.

   5. The idea of _deployment pipeline_ is a crucial element of continuous delivery. For a fleshed out explanation of this, refer to video in this week's [Recommended Resource] section.

## Parts to skim
   If you are familiar with commercial software development, you can selectively skip the elaboration of practices that you are familiar or have experience in. If you are unfamiliar, the elaboration will be helpful. It is nuts-and-bolts but the last mile of turning program source into working software demands this.


## Your Turn

Spend ten minutes to reflect on the reading above.

Now write a 300 word summary. (Your summary only needs to summarize the two practices you picked.) If you have additional experience with continuous integration, please add in your reflection of the same.

If you are adding some reflections, consider answering some of these questions:

1. What are two significant things you learned that connected with your prior experience?
2. What questions remain in your mind?
3. Is there anything you did not understand?
4. What would you share from this set of reading with a colleague?


Grading will be peer review and follow the previously released rubric. Use the comment feature to provide constructive criticism and assign a mark (out of 5) using the comment field. You can assume that each submission you are reviewing is submitted on-time. (The instructor/TA will handle late submissions.)


Option 1 (Summary only)
1. Completeness of coverage (within constraint of the 2 practices).  (4 pt)

2. Punctuality of submission. (1 pt)


Option 2 (Summary + Reflection)
1. Completeness of coverage (within constraint of the 2 practices). (3 pt)

2. Relevance of reflection (1 pt)

3. Punctuality of submission. (1 pt)


[fa icon="pencil"][Reflection](https://canvas.sfu.ca/courses/59479/assignments/576415)  
