## Reading 1

0. [How to Read a Paper](https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee384m/Handouts/HowtoReadPaper.pdf)
1. [Welcome to the Jungle](https://herbsutter.com/welcome-to-the-jungle/) ([Video of Facebook Engineering talk by the author](https://www.facebook.com/Engineering/videos/herb-sutter-welcome-to-the-jungle/10151029515183109/))

## Introduction
   You will be reading many articles and papers in this course (and likely through your career). It pays to 
   have a systematic method for tackling this critical task to:
   1. reduce frustration when you are tackling a paper outside of your domain of expertise;
   2. make good use of your time;
   3. get the most out whatever paper that does cross your path.

## Instruction
   Read the paper [How to Read a Paper](https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee384m/Handouts/HowtoReadPaper.pdf) carefully. Pay attention to the three passes described. 
   The readings for this course have been carefully chosen to balance its content with the presumed background of the reader. But in some cases (such as in Week 1), the reading will be unavoidably demanding. In these cases, follow the suggestions from "How to Read a Paper" and use two passes to read the second paper. For those who are technically inclined and/or keen on a specific topic/paper, by all means take a third pass as your interest/time allows.

   [Welcome to the Jungle](https://herbsutter.com/welcome-to-the-jungle/) is the longest article (~10000 words) for this course but if you apply the technique above (using two passes), you will be able to get the core ideas in a reasonable amount of time (<2h).

   Some notes :
   1. The article uses a mining analogy. If you are not familiar with geology and related heavy industry, you may need to read up on the side.

   2. Note the macro trends in core count and memory distribution have been manifested for a long time now across a wide spectrum of markets: main-stream game consoles, new devices (e.g., nVidia Tegra 3 chipset as used in Tesla Model S, Microsoft Surface, Google Nexus 7 tablet, etc), and processor architecture/families (Intel/x86, ARM, AMD, PowerPC, etc).

   3. Sutter provides names for the ways memory for an application may be divided across different boundaries (processor die, computers, racks, datacenters). These names (NUMA, incoherent, weak etc) are not as important as the underlying architecture. I.e., we continue to run programs with data that happens to be distributed across various systems/locations/timezones.

   4. The emergence of cloud computing has a persistent and pervasive impact on both our industry and society: “Mainstream hardware is becoming permanently parallel, heterogeneous, and distributed. These changes are permanent, and so will permanently affect the way we have to write performance-intensive code on mainstream architectures.”

   5. The timelines Sutter provides from the 1970 to today is insightful. Even though the article is over a decade old, it remains valuable for examining and understanding the architecture of systems being built. 

   6. The new priorities for software development are parallel programming, efficiency, and heterogeneous systems.

## Your Turn

   Take 30 minutes to take [Quiz 1](https://coursys.sfu.ca/2022sp-cmpt-756-g1/+r1/) for this reading. 
