docs/r2.md, before:

## Reading 2
1. [Centralized vs Distributed SCM](https://web.archive.org/web/20190707165914/https://www.drdobbs.com/architecture-and-design/centralized-vs-distributed-scm/231600666)
2. [Monorepo vs Polyrepo](https://github.com/joelparkerhenderson/monorepo-vs-polyrepo)
3. [Infrastructure as Code](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/InfrastructureAsCode.html)

## Key points

   This week's set of readings is centered on software development tooling. The timing for this topic is deliberate because our work with cloud and distributed systems is easily manageable with the appropriate tooling.

   If you haven't used a version control or "software configuration" tool previously, now's the time to learn one (e.g., git) and understand the practice. Data science is rapdily moving towards this standard practice with the emergence of MLops, Gitops, etc. Centralized SCM may be foreign but they are the established category and present in most (if not all) larger organizations. 
   
   Most students have likely used git/GitHub. You should take away that git is but one of several available decentralized source control tool. Similarly, GitHub is but one of several service for git. Indeed, SFU hosts its own GitLab server (at [https://csil-git1.cs.surrey.sfu.ca/](https://csil-git1.cs.surrey.sfu.ca/)) to provide a PIPEDA-compliant option.  
   
   The second article compares and contrasts the pattern for organizing the artifacts of a system. Even though the example is presented from git's perspective, the pattern is generalizable to other SCM tools. 
   
   Finally, the last article provides an elaboration on the pattern of "Infrastructure-as-Code". This is a superficially simple but subtley profound practice that underlies the modern approach to developing for and operating distributed systems in the public cloud. There is a very trivial example of IaC within this course
   by way of the definition of a couple fo DynamoDB tables at `cluster/cloudformationdynamodb.json`. Examine them now and reflect how this approach of of defining
   the usage of a database (via a JSON declaration) compares with the traditional approach of setting up a database server. 


## Your Turn

   Visit CourSys on Friday morning at 8:30AM PT to take the 30 minutes [Quiz 2](https://coursys.sfu.ca/2022sp-cmpt-756-g1/+q2/) for this reading.

Commit message:

add the Python PEP as a case study for choosing SCM

docs/r2.md, after:

## Reading 2
1. [Centralized vs Distributed SCM](https://web.archive.org/web/20190707165914/https://www.drdobbs.com/architecture-and-design/centralized-vs-distributed-scm/231600666)
2. [Case study: Choosing a distributed VCS for the Python project](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0374/)
3. [Monorepo vs Polyrepo](https://github.com/joelparkerhenderson/monorepo-vs-polyrepo)
4. [Infrastructure as Code](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/InfrastructureAsCode.html)

## Key points

   This week's set of readings is centered on software development tooling. The timing for this topic is deliberate because our work with cloud and distributed systems is easily manageable with the appropriate tooling.

   If you haven't used a version control or "software configuration" tool previously, now's the time to learn one (e.g., git) and understand the practice. Data science is rapdily moving towards this standard practice with the emergence of MLops, Gitops, etc. Centralized SCM may be foreign but they are the established category and present in most (if not all) larger organizations. 

   The second reading is a real-world example of a migration from a centralized to a decentralized/distributed source control system. It is illustrative of the factors that goes into the decision making proess.
   
   The third article compares and contrasts the pattern for organizing the artifacts of a system. Even though the example is presented from git's perspective, the pattern is generalizable to other SCM tools. 
   
   Finally, the last article provides an elaboration on the pattern of "Infrastructure-as-Code". This is a superficially simple but subtley profound practice that underlies the modern approach to developing for and operating distributed systems in the public cloud. There is a very trivial example of IaC within this course
   by way of the definition of a couple fo DynamoDB tables at `cluster/cloudformationdynamodb.json`. Examine them now and reflect how this approach of of defining
   the usage of a database (via a JSON declaration) compares with the traditional approach of setting up a database server. 


## Your Turn

   Visit CourSys on Friday morning at 8:30AM PT to take the 30 minutes [Quiz 2](https://coursys.sfu.ca/2022sp-cmpt-756-g1/+q2/) for this reading.
