## Reading

1. [The Missing Introduction To Containerization](https://medium.com/faun/the-missing-introduction-to-containerization-de1fbb73efc5)
2. [Optional: Kubernetes Podcast, episode 70: Windows Server Containers (start from ~-32m28s)](https://kubernetespodcast.com/episode/070-windows-server-containers/)
3. [Makefiles in 2019 — Why They Still Matter](https://tech.trivago.com/2019/12/20/makefiles-in-2019-why-they-still-matter/)

## Key points


    The first article (and mandatory reading for this week on the topic of Kubernetes) covers the history of container technology including Docker. The notable omission is Microsoft's recent contributions around Docker for Windows. The article gets into the weeds of historical Linux/Unix technologies and run-time detail that are of no interest for us.

    The second optional "reading" is a podcast that fills in Microsoft's contribution to the Docker for Windows. It is available both as a podcast for you to listen to (~30 min) as well as a transcript. (I recommend the podcast.)

    The final article focuses on a specific tool--make--that will be used extensively in this course. I have found Makefile to be particular powerful way to learn, operate and document a system comprised of multiple tools. The article offers some background and useful examples that are similar and/or consistent with our usage in this course. T


## Skip altogether:

    The sections in the first article where the author asks you to download CGroup Tools: “Let’s Create a Container Using Namespaces and Groups” and to install runC: “runC: Leveraging libcontainer Without Using Docker”


## Your Turn

   Take 30 minutes to complete [Quiz 3](https://canvas.sfu.ca/courses/67084/quizzes/) associated with this reading. 
