## Reading
<!--
A Journey through Microservices
-->
1. [A Journey through Microservices](https://medium.com/@nmckinnonblog/microservices-42b09caeb73d)

## Key points

Here are the points to focus upon:

1. How McKinnon defines a microservice by its properties

2. The technical qualities that follow from this definition

## Parts to skim
The author's “Notes” (in italic) are less important and can be skimmed on first reading. These provide examples and analogies. They can help understand slippery concepts but they tend to be overly long for the point.

## Glossary

**“Continuous practices”**
Practices such as Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD), which are often combined as CI/CD. The “essential resources” list includes a link to a short definition of CI/CD.

**DTO (Data Transfer Object)**
A design pattern, most commonly-used in the Java world. StackOverflow has a discussion distinguishing DTO, VO, POJO, and JavaBeans.

**ESB (Enterprise Service Bus)**
A design pattern more common in older large-scale systems. Now more commonly replaced by a combination of orchestration (such as Kubernetes) and service meshes (such as Istio or Linkerd).

**gRPC**
A widely-used style for designing APIs. See also REST.

**LRG Principle (Least Representational Gap)**
The design principle that the representation in software should have the smallest possible gap between the model in software and the concepts in the domain being modeled. More details at the Model Principle page of the Software Engineering Principles Wiki.

**REST**
A widely-used style for designing APIs. See also gRPC.

**Return on Investment (ROI)**
The ratio of the return from an investment divided by the amount invested. A higher return on investment is better, as it indicates the investment paid off well. In technical discussions, the “investment” is typically the cost of development team effort. In most uses in a technical context, ROI is used to compare possible allocations of development time, so the returns are estimated rather than acual.

**SOAP**
An older style for designing service-based APIs. Not widely used in recent designs.

**Time To Market (TTM)**
The (calendar) time required to deploy a change into production and offer it as a customer-visible service. Marketing staff often want to deploy a smaller, less-polished change quickly (short time to market), while technical staff often argue for deploying a bigger, more-polished (or more feature-filled) change later (longer time to market).


## Your Turn

   Take 30 minutes to complete [Quiz 7](https://canvas.sfu.ca/courses/67084/quizzes/) for this reading. 
