## Reading


1. [Continuous Integration](https://martinfowler.com/articles/continuousIntegration.html)

As this is a long article, pick 2 of the 11 practices to read through. (I encourage you to read through all 11 practices but your reflection only needs to cover 2 practices.)

## Key points


   1. The article may seem old (at least in the scale of tech) at 14 years as the examples are somewhat dated. Thus, you may not relate readily to C++, compilers (and especially linking!) but packaging remains and arguably is more important and prominent with the proliferation of package managers and automation. But the concept of build remains relevant today.

   2. Note the attribution to Extreme Programming. This article came out 7 years after Kent Beck's book _Extreme Programming Explained_ which launched the movement.

   3. Continuous Delivery is a set of practices which can be implemented in any era's technologies.

   4. Note the advice on minimizing branches (under *Maintain a Single Source Repository*). This article pre-dates the rise of decentralized version control system such as git which fundamentally changed the practice and use of branches.

   5. The idea of _deployment pipeline_ is a crucial element of continuous delivery. For a fleshed out explanation of this, refer to video in this week's [Recommended Resource] section.

## Parts to skim
   If you are familiar with commercial software development, you can selectively skip the elaboration of practices that you are familiar or have experience in. If you are unfamiliar, the elaboration will be helpful. It is nuts-and-bolts but the last mile of turning program source into working software demands this.


## Your Turn

   Take 30 minutes to complete [Quiz 9](https://canvas.sfu.ca/courses/67084/quizzes/) for this reading. 
